---
title: Skills
number: 1
---

A skill is a set of one or more related actions that perform tasks or answer questions. Actions within a skill can share many resources with each other: shared code, data storage, connections to other APIs, and dependencies.

A skill can be installed and uninstalled (or imported and exported) as a single unit, much like an app.

Skills consist of three kinds of components:

1. [Actions]({% link _developer_reference/02_actions.md %}) that perform a task and/or return a response. Actions can be triggered by users, by scheduling, or they can be triggered programmatically through the [Ellipsis API]({% link _developer_reference/07_api.md %}).
2. [Custom data types] that query data, either stored on Ellipsis or generated by code.
3. [Libraries] that allow code to be shared by multiple actions or data types.

## Skill editor

The skill editor webpage shows the current (active) version of a skill, with all of its components. You can edit the skill details, edit each component, switch between components, and add new components using the sidebar.

## Version history

A version history browser shows a list of all saved versions of a skill. A new version is created each time the skill is saved.

You can browse through previous versions, and restore to any version. When you restore, Ellipsis will make a copy of the old version, but with the current date and time. Thus, the most recent version is always the current, active version.

For example, if you have two versions saved, the current version will be `v2` and the previous version will be `v1`. If you restore to `v1`, a third version, `v3` will be saved, identical (other than the timestamp) to `v1`.

## Skill details: the title, description, and icon

A title and description explain the purpose of the skill, and are displayed when users ask for help. Include an emoji icon to make the skill more identifiable. (Ideally, the emoji for each skill should be unique for each of your team's skills.)

## Skill installation, cloning, merging, export, deletion

Skills can be [installed, cloned (copied), merged together, and deleted]({% link _developer_reference/01_skills/01_management.md %}) from the list of skills page. You can also reinstall a skill to get or restore or update to the most recent published version. From the Skill details page in the skill editor, you can also export a skill to a ZIP file, or delete the skill.

## Exporting skills

Exported skills preserve all of the components, code and configuration of a skill. (In future, you will also be able to import a previously-exported skill.)
